Pastor Brent McQuay: Foreign. Welcome to another episode of Between
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sermons. I'm the host, Brent, and I
Pastor Brent McQuay: get to be the lead pastor here
Pastor Brent McQuay: at Disciples Church. And we are continuing
Pastor Brent McQuay: our conversation from Sunday. And this is
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to be a really fun one
Pastor Brent McQuay: because we're doing my favorite thing to
Pastor Brent McQuay: do on Sundays. But I'll let Taisha
Pastor Brent McQuay: tell you all about that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What?
Pastor Brent McQuay: You don't know what my favorite thing
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do on Sundays is?
Ti'heasha Beasley: To break down every word, Walk through
Ti'heasha Beasley: the Bible. Every word. Every period.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Break into every word.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, no.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, we made it all the
Pastor Brent McQuay: way through. 12 entire verses. 50 minutes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, it was. It was in. It
Ti'heasha Beasley: was a lot, but it was good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I got a lot of feedback.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sure.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So before we dive into that shade
Ti'heasha Beasley: right there. No, no, no, no.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was a lot.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: It was good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was good. No, we believe you.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We love here at Disciples Church when
Ti'heasha Beasley: you walk through the book of the
Ti'heasha Beasley: Bible.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: We love it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We love it. Right, Pastor Asa. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: speaking of. So, Pastor Asa, you're going
Ti'heasha Beasley: to help us with this conversation. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: welcome, welcome between Sermons.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I'm happy to be here.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You are?
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah. Okay. I'm always happy to be
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: here.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Absolutely.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I just love that our church loves
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Bible.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Are there churches out there that don't
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: love the Bible? Don't answer that question.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's name. No, I'm just playing. I
Ti'heasha Beasley: don't know any churches by name.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah, it seemed like in service, it
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: seemed like when you announced it, I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: wasn't sure. But then once it's going,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you can tell our church loves the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Bible. But when you say it, it's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: like for sure, people don't know how
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to respond.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Especially second service. Second service, it was
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, we're going to walk through a
Pastor Brent McQuay: book of the Bible and everybody's like.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, my gosh. So before we dive
Ti'heasha Beasley: in, we started a new sermon series.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We're in the book First Peter.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yes.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So I know you love our. In
Ti'heasha Beasley: a book series. They are really good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. This is our third one now.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So we did Ephesians, we did James,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and now we're in First Peter. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: we got. Yeah, we got. We got
Pastor Brent McQuay: Paul, we got James, and now we
Pastor Brent McQuay: got Peter.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Some heavy hitters, and most of the
Ti'heasha Beasley: people you chose are very spicy. Is
Ti'heasha Beasley: it a reason?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Show me somebody in the New Testament
Pastor Brent McQuay: that isn't spicy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's spicy. Okay. So it's okay as
Ti'heasha Beasley: believers to have a little.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I would say that they're passionate.
Ti'heasha Beasley: They're not spicy.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: They just. Passionate about the word. They
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: passionate about the mission. Yeah, that's what
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that is.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Do you guys consider yourselves to be
Ti'heasha Beasley: passionate disciples of Jesus?
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I need to be more passionate.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay, okay.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: More.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I would say I'm more passionate about
Pastor Brent McQuay: that than anything else.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You guys have good answers.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I. I will say I did
Pastor Brent McQuay: get excited last night. The first Bears
Pastor Brent McQuay: touchdown. I'm at soccer game or soccer
Pastor Brent McQuay: practice. So I'm watching on my phone.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm sitting in my car. They score
Pastor Brent McQuay: the touchdown. I go, yes. And the
Pastor Brent McQuay: guy sat in the car next to
Pastor Brent McQuay: me was like, oh, wow.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: What'S going on with this guy?
Ti'heasha Beasley: That was right. Was our window down?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Was it up?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, that's what I'm like.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I don't even know how he heard.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, I don't know. Who knows?
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So that's part of why I respond
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to a question like that. Like, I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: need to be more passionate, because I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: was at the Bears game, and he
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: was smacking his car, and I was
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: jumping up and down. And sometimes I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: jump up and down in the presence
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of the Lord. Sometimes I don't. But
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I don't think there's ever a time
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and The Bears lose 65, 70% of
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: the time that I'm not jumping up
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and down when they do something good.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So I need to be more passionate
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: than Jesus.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay. We're gonna all hold you accountable
Ti'heasha Beasley: to that here.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Get the jumping around here. If I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: start running and jumping in service, don't.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Don't judge me.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Just stand. Just stand in the back,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and we won't bother you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's been a long time since somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: ran a lap inside of the auditorium.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I can't say it's never happened. No,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's definitely been a while.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: We've moved the chair. Well, the new
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: stage is a little tight.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. Might be a little tough.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: You might get tripped or get tossed.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sound panels on the wall, they're gonna
Pastor Brent McQuay: be, like, knocked askew and.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Away from the whole experience.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We also got a security team that
Pastor Brent McQuay: might be, like, why is he running?
Pastor Brent McQuay: What is he running to?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Somebody stop him.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right? That's true. That's true. We were
Ti'heasha Beasley: actually doing a little bit of memory
Ti'heasha Beasley: lane laning before we came into here.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We was looking at old 20, 22
Ti'heasha Beasley: sermons and things. So it's definitely, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: from three years.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Listen, when you. No, when you started
Pastor Brent McQuay: off or old. Three years ago.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We're going to unpack that more after
Ti'heasha Beasley: this show, but it seemed pretty. We've
Ti'heasha Beasley: progressed. Like, God has done some amazing
Ti'heasha Beasley: things, and one is we take time
Ti'heasha Beasley: to walk through different passages, and I
Ti'heasha Beasley: love that. Not that we didn't do
Ti'heasha Beasley: that before, but it seems to be
Ti'heasha Beasley: one of your biggest passions, so. It
Ti'heasha Beasley: is. Yeah. So tell us a little
Ti'heasha Beasley: bit about First Peter First. How did
Ti'heasha Beasley: we land there? Was it just like
Ti'heasha Beasley: random or did you decide?
Pastor Brent McQuay: No, it wasn't random. If I remember
Pastor Brent McQuay: right, we had like, I think I
Pastor Brent McQuay: had like six different books of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible that I brought to the team
Pastor Brent McQuay: that I was like, I would love
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do any one of these six,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but like, what would be a good
Pastor Brent McQuay: one to do? And like we, we
Pastor Brent McQuay: kind of weighed pros and cons. It
Pastor Brent McQuay: was like, okay, well if we do
Pastor Brent McQuay: another, we just did Ephesians. If we
Pastor Brent McQuay: do another writing of Paul, sometimes Paul's
Pastor Brent McQuay: letters, he, he borrows ideas from his
Pastor Brent McQuay: previous letters or he repeats himself and
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's like, well, it really feel as
Pastor Brent McQuay: fresh if it's another letter from Paul.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so we kind of, we're going
Pastor Brent McQuay: back and forth and we finally just
Pastor Brent McQuay: landed on First Peter. Just like, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I like this one. But I, I,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I did say though, I was like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you know what, I know it's only
Pastor Brent McQuay: five chapters. I want to do six
Pastor Brent McQuay: weeks with it though. I feel like
Pastor Brent McQuay: sometimes we just get into it without
Pastor Brent McQuay: giving it like the setup that it
Pastor Brent McQuay: really needs. And looking at First Peter,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the way chapter one breaks down, there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a two verse intro.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And then there's. The next ten verses
Pastor Brent McQuay: are basically setting up, I guess it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: almost like an overview of what he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to talk about, but not, not
Pastor Brent McQuay: really an overview. What's the right word
Pastor Brent McQuay: for it? It's like the framework, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: guess the foundation of what everything else
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's going to talk about is going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be based on this. We are
Pastor Brent McQuay: born again into a living hope and
Pastor Brent McQuay: we have an inheritance waiting for us,
Pastor Brent McQuay: secure in heaven. And he takes that
Pastor Brent McQuay: idea, he builds that foundation for 10
Pastor Brent McQuay: verses and then everything for the next
Pastor Brent McQuay: four chapters is based on. Since you've
Pastor Brent McQuay: been born again, since you have a
Pastor Brent McQuay: living hope, since you have an inheritance,
Pastor Brent McQuay: here's what you need to be doing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so it felt like we needed
Pastor Brent McQuay: to separate like that section. So I
Pastor Brent McQuay: was like, okay, let's take six weeks
Pastor Brent McQuay: to walk through these five chapters.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, yeah.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And I like that for a couple
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of reasons. One is coming out of
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: called, it just kind of made sense
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: because we were doing character studies and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: breaking down the character. So that intro
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to Peter was really good. And it
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: just, it was a little.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bit of a bridge because it was,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we got a little bit of Peter's
Pastor Brent McQuay: calling.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah, yeah. So I like that part
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of it. And then to Just the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: overall setup, independently of the fact that
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: we was kind of doing call. I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: don't know with Ephesians, we didn't really.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: We didn't do that, I don't think.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: No, we did a little bit of
Pastor Brent McQuay: like an overview, a little bit of
Pastor Brent McQuay: an introduction along with chapter one.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But it was. It was definitely one
Pastor Brent McQuay: of those where I think, if I
Pastor Brent McQuay: remember right, like, the first third of
Pastor Brent McQuay: my Ephesians message was an overview and
Pastor Brent McQuay: then the rest of it was chapter
Pastor Brent McQuay: one.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah. Because I was thinking about that
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: earlier, like, when we do these types
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of things, overview for each chapter is
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: probably really good. Yeah. Because just to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: set up the scene, give the context
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to what's going on. That was really
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. And you even mentioned in your
Ti'heasha Beasley: message at the top, like, context is
Ti'heasha Beasley: king.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Context, Context, context.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. So we do. I don't know
Ti'heasha Beasley: if he spent a lot, a lot
Ti'heasha Beasley: of time on Peter. So let's set
Ti'heasha Beasley: up Peter. For those who don't know
Ti'heasha Beasley: who Peter is, I think we spent
Ti'heasha Beasley: a good amount of time on like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: the background and who Peter was writing
Ti'heasha Beasley: to. Who is Peter? How did he
Ti'heasha Beasley: become a disciple? Like a chosen one
Ti'heasha Beasley: who actually walks with Jesus? How did
Ti'heasha Beasley: he get that, that privilege and that
Ti'heasha Beasley: honor?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because Jesus invited him and he said
Pastor Brent McQuay: yes.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Kind of. Kind of the way it
Pastor Brent McQuay: works for all. Now do we know
Pastor Brent McQuay: why Peter was chosen?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Not really.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, there's nothing written about, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter was this great guy. No, he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just a fisherman. Worked with his d.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The family business was fishermen. And yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus came along and was like, hey,
Pastor Brent McQuay: come, follow me.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: What I like about the being chosen
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: part is we don't know necessarily why,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: but it's a theme in the Bible
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of people being chosen that somebody can
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: identify with or see themselves in or
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: realize that you ain't got to be
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: so perfect to be chosen by God.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So, I mean, we see that so
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: often. So I love that part of
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it is that, man, Jesus picked some
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: all over the map type of people.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And then when I think about the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: people that I know today, we got
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: a lot of all over the map
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: type of people, including myself. And, you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: know, we've all been all over the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: map. So it's cool. It's really cool
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to see that, man. There's no excuse
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to live a life thinking I'm not
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: good enough for what Jesus is offering.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Because if you read what is happening,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you're good enough. I mean, because it's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: all about him to begin with. But
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: so I like that from what.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We see of Peter, Peter Definitely had
Pastor Brent McQuay: that like type A personality. He was
Pastor Brent McQuay: a little bit hot headed.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like he just kind of runs his
Pastor Brent McQuay: mouth and says things and does things
Pastor Brent McQuay: and man, it, I, what did I
Pastor Brent McQuay: call him? I called him the, the,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the apostle of oh man, extremes. Because
Pastor Brent McQuay: it really was, it was like one
Pastor Brent McQuay: minute he's doing something that you're like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: wow, Peter. And the next one he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing something you're like, wow, Peter. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's a very different.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So like when he gets it right,
Pastor Brent McQuay: he gets it really, really right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's the one who basically tells, tells
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus. When Jesus like feeds a bunch
Pastor Brent McQuay: of people, then he starts preaching stuff
Pastor Brent McQuay: that the people are like, whoa, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a little hard to swallow. Like, you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: gonna have to eat my flesh and
Pastor Brent McQuay: drink my blood, all this stuff and,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and the people leave.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And Jesus looks at his disciples like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you guys going to leave too? Peter's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the one that steps forward. He's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: where are we going to go? You
Pastor Brent McQuay: have the words of life, right? Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: where are we going to go? Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: he, I mean he's got brilliant moments.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's the dude that's like, that's Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: walking on water. If it's really Jesus,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm going to go out there, walk
Pastor Brent McQuay: with him. Yes. Which honestly is still
Pastor Brent McQuay: the dumbest idea.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh my gosh. How you going to
Ti'heasha Beasley: call Peters?
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was the, it was a, it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was a bad idea. It was a
Pastor Brent McQuay: bad plan. Okay, so like if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: hear something in the night, say, don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: worry Tyisha, it's me, David. Would you
Pastor Brent McQuay: be like, okay, David, if it's really
Pastor Brent McQuay: you, then tell me to come in
Pastor Brent McQuay: there with you?
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah, that is kinda not smart.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean the logic of this, like
Pastor Brent McQuay: if it's not Jesus, oh my God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The thing could still be like, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Peter, come on out.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah, come on. And if it's the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: devil, the father of lies. Yeah, Peter,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: come on out.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The scripture says everybody thought he was
Pastor Brent McQuay: a ghost. And the ghost is like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's not a ghost, it's me, Jesus.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Okay, if you're not really a ghost
Pastor Brent McQuay: and you're really Jesus, tell me to
Pastor Brent McQuay: walk on water.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Okay.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That was human though.
Pastor Brent McQuay: How is that a good idea?
Ti'heasha Beasley: I mean I could just, I think
Ti'heasha Beasley: that was a human response, but yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But then he walks on water is
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's amazing moment. Like, yeah, you got
Pastor Brent McQuay: 11 guys in the boat that got
Pastor Brent McQuay: to watch one of their friends walk
Pastor Brent McQuay: on water. There's only one of those
Pastor Brent McQuay: dudes that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Actually walked on water because of his
Ti'heasha Beasley: dumb.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because of His. Because of his recklessness
Pastor Brent McQuay: and his craziness. But, like, right, Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, just think about that. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: for the rest of his life, he
Pastor Brent McQuay: could describe to people what it feels
Pastor Brent McQuay: like to walk on water.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Only person, only one.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: But then there's that thought in the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: back of his head later in life
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: about how he denied Jesus. We're not
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: going to talk about the bad things
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I did, but, you know, I walked
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: on water. Right, right.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, my God.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What's amazing, you know, John would have.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Been quick to be like, you also
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: denied him.
Pastor Brent McQuay: What did it feel like to deny
Pastor Brent McQuay: knowing Jesus? To a little talking about
Pastor Brent McQuay: what it felt like to walk on.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you know, John would do that
Pastor Brent McQuay: because he's the one that was like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So all the, all the other disciples,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, or all the other gospel writers
Pastor Brent McQuay: write about things that Peter did without
Pastor Brent McQuay: naming Peter, like some of the bad
Pastor Brent McQuay: things. And one of the disciples, blah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: blah, one of the disciples, like, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: get to the book of John and
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's like, Peter did it.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Right, Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It was Peter.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes. Now that you guys are talking
Ti'heasha Beasley: about it, it does make it feel
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, very realistic. Like, I know these
Ti'heasha Beasley: people in real life. These are real
Ti'heasha Beasley: people who have real flaws and God,
Ti'heasha Beasley: real personalities, and God chose them. So
Ti'heasha Beasley: before we get into the thick of
Ti'heasha Beasley: it, which disciple do you relate to
Ti'heasha Beasley: the most?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Thomas.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What? Doubting Thomas.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Really?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Always got questions.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah. Doubting Brent. That made sense when
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: he said that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Always got questions. So here's what. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: caveat that I'll put on it. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't think Thomas deserves the moniker Doubting
Pastor Brent McQuay: Thomas.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Thomas had questions, not necessarily doubts. So
Pastor Brent McQuay: he asked questions, and we call that
Pastor Brent McQuay: doubt. But like, his questions actually led
Pastor Brent McQuay: to amazing moments. And some of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: great truths that we know from Scripture
Pastor Brent McQuay: are conversations based off of a question
Pastor Brent McQuay: that Thomas would. Thomas would ask a
Pastor Brent McQuay: question. How can we go where you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: going if we don't know the way?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like Jesus says, I'm preparing this place
Pastor Brent McQuay: for you. And then Jesus has this
Pastor Brent McQuay: beautiful response. I'm the way the truth
Pastor Brent McQuay: and life. Like all that whole conversation
Pastor Brent McQuay: is based off of Thomas asking a
Pastor Brent McQuay: question. So, yeah, that's my guy. He's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the guy with the questions.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And part of his message was ask
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: questions, guys. It's okay to. As you're
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: going through getting context in the Bible
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and learning the Bible and studying the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Bible, you need to be asking the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: question.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So makes sense.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: He asked questions.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He asked questions and got amazing answers
Pastor Brent McQuay: as a result. So I think it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: fantastic.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And he made great declarations of Faith
Pastor Brent McQuay: based off of the answers. When. When
Pastor Brent McQuay: he tells the disciples, he's like, look,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I. I want to believe you, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: unless I see him for myself, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just. I can't. Like, it's just. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: too much. And so Jesus shows up,
Pastor Brent McQuay: personal visit just for Thomas, so that
Pastor Brent McQuay: Thomas can touch him in the holes
Pastor Brent McQuay: in his hands and the holes in
Pastor Brent McQuay: his side. And Thomas is the first
Pastor Brent McQuay: one to say, my Lord and my
Pastor Brent McQuay: God.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's amazing. What about you?
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I don't know the answer to the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: question, but I see myself in different
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: circumstances. So, like, you can see a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: little bit of yourself and just what's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: happening more than the overall person. So,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: like, the whole, oh, I'm about to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: cut this ear off as my natural
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: response to y' all about to attack
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Jesus. I can see myself being that
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: aggressive unnecessarily.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I can see your throwing hands.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So it's like those type of things,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: like, oh, I probably shouldn't have cut
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: his ear off. Jesus, my bad. Let's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: love him now. I just.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, my God.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So, you know, some of those things
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I think is more story by story
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: things as you're going through it, you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: start to identify with.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So I heard something here recently that
Pastor Brent McQuay: just. It was one of those, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: cool moments where I was like, interesting
Pastor Brent McQuay: thought. It just sparked. So when Peter
Pastor Brent McQuay: cuts off the guy's ear, Jesus puts
Pastor Brent McQuay: it back on. It got rid of
Pastor Brent McQuay: any evidence. So, like, Peter could have
Pastor Brent McQuay: been executed for attacking the servant of
Pastor Brent McQuay: this guy. Like, but the ear gets
Pastor Brent McQuay: put back on, which means there's zero
Pastor Brent McQuay: evidence. Yeah, it was like, oh, man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I never even thought about that. But,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, Jesus got rid of the evidence.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, that's really cool.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: That's also so wild.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Gangster. And it's like, that's gangster.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: It's so wild, though. The. The evidence
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that this is the Messiah, like the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: miracles that they seen him do, and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: we as humans are still weak enough
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to deny him in those of pressure.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: That is amazing stuff. And, you know,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: sometimes we think we got it all
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: together, and I would never do that.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: But, man, you never know till pressure
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: is put on you what's actually going
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to come out. So it's such an
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: interesting thing to think he saw over
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and over again Jesus fixing stuff miraculously.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And yeah, it's a common argument from.
Pastor Brent McQuay: From atheists where they'll. They'll say, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: not necessarily argument, but they'll say something
Pastor Brent McQuay: along the lines of, why doesn't God
Pastor Brent McQuay: just show up and prove who he
Pastor Brent McQuay: is? And it's like, well, he did
Pastor Brent McQuay: that 2,000 years ago. You remember how
Pastor Brent McQuay: it ended?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And. And so it's like, you know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus can be standing right in front
Pastor Brent McQuay: of you doing things that no one
Pastor Brent McQuay: else can do, no one else could
Pastor Brent McQuay: explain, and you can still be like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: nah, yeah, yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I think that kind of goes into
Ti'heasha Beasley: a little bit of some of the
Ti'heasha Beasley: application of this sermon, which is like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: hope and even how the testing of
Ti'heasha Beasley: our faith is done. And sometimes it's.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's difficult. Like, we kind of had
Ti'heasha Beasley: this discussion in our small group recently
Ti'heasha Beasley: with the message, and it was a
Ti'heasha Beasley: lot of reflecting that happened because people,
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's a mature moment when you get
Ti'heasha Beasley: to the point where you're like, either
Ti'heasha Beasley: I did this and this is the
Ti'heasha Beasley: consequence of what I'm going through, or
Ti'heasha Beasley: this is really a testing of my
Ti'heasha Beasley: faith. So I thought that was good
Ti'heasha Beasley: application you pulled out of that. How
Ti'heasha Beasley: do you think Peter got to that
Ti'heasha Beasley: place where he could write about that?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, what was something. I don't know.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You're not Peter. But what you can
Ti'heasha Beasley: gauge from the, the. His.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Well, and so, like, part of that
Pastor Brent McQuay: is why I walk through some of
Pastor Brent McQuay: his life and mention that this is.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's writing this 30 years after Pentecost.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, think of, like, where, like, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't even have really. Well, I guess
Pastor Brent McQuay: technically I do. I got saved when
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was six. I mean, 30 years
Pastor Brent McQuay: ago today, I would have been 11.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, 30 year history of walking with
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus. Like, what does that. How does
Pastor Brent McQuay: that change a person?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Wow.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, like, yes, when we look
Pastor Brent McQuay: at pre Pentecost, Peter, it's the good
Pastor Brent McQuay: and the bad. It's the highs and
Pastor Brent McQuay: lows. It's. It's the saying things he
Pastor Brent McQuay: shouldn't say, doing things he shouldn't do,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and then saying perfect things and doing
Pastor Brent McQuay: perfect things. He's all over the map.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Pentecost happens, though, and something like, really
Pastor Brent McQuay: triggers in him. Something changes the Holy
Pastor Brent McQuay: Spirit in him. And so now he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: been walking in the power of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: holy spirit for 30 years, for three
Pastor Brent McQuay: decades. You got to figure that in
Pastor Brent McQuay: that time the Holy Spirit has softened
Pastor Brent McQuay: some of his edges. You know, it's.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's possible that he was in his
Pastor Brent McQuay: early 20s or late teens even, some
Pastor Brent McQuay: people will say, when he was following
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus originally. So now he's got maturity
Pastor Brent McQuay: that he didn't have then. He's aged
Pastor Brent McQuay: a little bit. He's got more wisdom.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, I think that it's. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: natural to think, okay, that's where this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is coming from. It's. He's lived 30
Pastor Brent McQuay: years of life. And now he recognizes,
Pastor Brent McQuay: okay, there's trials. Let me tell you
Pastor Brent McQuay: about trials. Like, okay, when. When we
Pastor Brent McQuay: first were there, we were being persecuted.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's like, I spent time in prison
Pastor Brent McQuay: for my faith. I got arrested for
Pastor Brent McQuay: preaching the gospel. And so, like, if
Pastor Brent McQuay: you read through the Book of Acts,
Pastor Brent McQuay: some of the things that Peter experiences,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the miracles that he sees, the persecution
Pastor Brent McQuay: that he faces, and just, I mean,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're getting a glimpse of a couple
Pastor Brent McQuay: of years in the Book of Acts.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So now multiply that out by 30
Pastor Brent McQuay: years. So this is just a guy
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's gone through life.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And he's. He's speaking from both his
Pastor Brent McQuay: personal experience, but also through the guidance
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the Holy Spirit.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, it. It just reminds me of
Ti'heasha Beasley: how some old church mothers would be
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, baby, just keep living. Yeah, just
Ti'heasha Beasley: keep living. Can you recall, Pastor Asa,
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, moments where that. That passage or
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, that testimony has come alive to
Ti'heasha Beasley: you, where, you know, you. It wasn't
Ti'heasha Beasley: necessarily a trial of, like, a consequence,
Ti'heasha Beasley: so we don't get to that, but
Ti'heasha Beasley: it was a moment where it was
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, I know that this is a
Ti'heasha Beasley: testing of my faith. Do you have
Ti'heasha Beasley: any moments where you can recall.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yes, but not necessarily in the sense
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of persecution, more in the sense of.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Of.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Tragedies and things like that, where it's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: like, man, I got a choice to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: either hold on to Jesus or be
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: derailed, or I got a choice to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: either believe the word and have joy
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and have hope or be derailed in
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that way. So, like, more I would
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: say the testing of the faith going
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: through stuff where it's not human persecution
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: necessarily, but it's ups and downs based
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: on, as they say, life, and. You
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: know what I mean? So I got
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: plenty of those moments where I've seen
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: myself grow and. But see myself have
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to really just rely on the word
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of God, rely on what I believe
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: over what I see. But even though
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I say what I believe over what
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I see, what I believe is the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Bible, which tells us it's going to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: be drama, it's going to be stuff
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: happening. So being able to not question
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: God in the middle of the stuff
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and know that God is still on
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: the throne, he's still good, his word
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: is still true, and stuff happens, and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: we don't necessarily always know why, but
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: stuff happens and the word is still
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: true. So I would say more in
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that way. Yeah, more than. I was
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: thinking about that. I was. I was
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: re. Listening to the message this morning,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and in there, you told people to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: reflect on or write down maybe some
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Trials that they've experienced, that might be
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: experiencing now. And I was thinking. Or
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: persecution. I think maybe you said persecution,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: but I was thinking, man, I, I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: don't had it easy. I don't really
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: feel like I've been persecuted.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Don't say.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I mean, it just is what it
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: is. But I was thinking about it,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: like, I can't think of circumstances where
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I've been persecuted necessarily for my faith.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Now maybe I need to be more
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: active. But yeah, think of.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So the, the emphasis was on trials
Pastor Brent McQuay: because. Yeah, I think sometimes as Americans,
Pastor Brent McQuay: we. We like to claim persecution.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I'm, I'm. It's. It's the wrong
Pastor Brent McQuay: day for me to talk about this,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but I'm going to talk about it
Pastor Brent McQuay: anyways. I just read an email from
Pastor Brent McQuay: one of our missions partners yesterday. He's
Pastor Brent McQuay: asking for prayer because one of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: pastors that he oversees that he's been
Pastor Brent McQuay: training in a part of the world
Pastor Brent McQuay: where Islam is more prevalent, a riot
Pastor Brent McQuay: started outside of his church that then
Pastor Brent McQuay: spilled into the church. They attacked him.
Pastor Brent McQuay: They attacked members of the church. They
Pastor Brent McQuay: started beating them to death, attempted to.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, they're. They're not beating them for
Pastor Brent McQuay: fun. They're trying to kill them. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: police came and in breaking up the.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The riot and everything, arrested all the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christians. It's like they. They came into
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Christian church, attacked the Christians, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Christians get arrested, and it took
Pastor Brent McQuay: them almost a week. I think he
Pastor Brent McQuay: said to just get the pastor bailed
Pastor Brent McQuay: out because the government was, Was holding
Pastor Brent McQuay: him accountable for everything because he's preaching
Pastor Brent McQuay: the gospel. Oh, my God. So, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: so when a. When a. When a
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christian in America is like, I'm being
Pastor Brent McQuay: persecuted because my boss won't let me
Pastor Brent McQuay: read my Bible on my break, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, okay, that's an inconvenience. That's not
Pastor Brent McQuay: persecution. There's. There is real persecution that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: really happening right now all over the
Pastor Brent McQuay: world. So, yeah, I'm in a man.
Ti'heasha Beasley: This Americanized Christianity stuff is like a
Ti'heasha Beasley: real thing, and we do have it
Ti'heasha Beasley: very easy. And I mean, it's humbling.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And it definitely puts things in perspective,
Ti'heasha Beasley: how we go to God and we're
Ti'heasha Beasley: complaining about things.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And it's just like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And. And it's not to say, look,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that. That you don't. You. That you
Pastor Brent McQuay: can't face persecution in the U.S. you
Pastor Brent McQuay: absolutely can. But there's a difference in
Pastor Brent McQuay: persecution where here you may lose a
Pastor Brent McQuay: job or you may lose friends. In
Pastor Brent McQuay: other parts of the world, you would
Pastor Brent McQuay: lose your life. It's just different levels
Pastor Brent McQuay: of persecution. But I think that trials
Pastor Brent McQuay: can. Are absolutely still a part of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the life of a believer. Whether you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the US or, you know, first
Pastor Brent McQuay: world or third world country, doesn't really
Pastor Brent McQuay: matter. There's going to be trials. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: trials are just going to look different.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You know, do you want your trial
Pastor Brent McQuay: to come with air conditioning or not?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, it's just, that's kind of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: difference.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Did you just. Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, am I wrong? Like, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: just, you know, it's we.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, I get it. No, that's good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's a good reflective point. Just thinking
Ti'heasha Beasley: about trials, though. Okay, so you said
Ti'heasha Beasley: you compared like trout. Things that we
Ti'heasha Beasley: can bring on ourselves.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Trials and consequences.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So two different things.
Ti'heasha Beasley: How do we tell the difference between
Ti'heasha Beasley: those?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was asked that question, like, right
Pastor Brent McQuay: as somebody was leaving. Well, how do
Pastor Brent McQuay: I know if it's a trial or
Pastor Brent McQuay: consequence? I'm like, did you do something
Pastor Brent McQuay: you shouldn't do?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, I mean, we do something every
Ti'heasha Beasley: day that we shouldn't do.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I felt a little bit bad because
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was like, I don't, I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: mean to like insult your intelligence or
Pastor Brent McQuay: anything, but like, you know, when it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a consequence, like, because, you know, you
Pastor Brent McQuay: did something you shouldn't do and you're,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're dealing with it. So. Yeah, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: don't think there's a great mystery behind
Pastor Brent McQuay: is it a trial or is it
Pastor Brent McQuay: a consequence? Just stop long enough to
Pastor Brent McQuay: think, okay, am I doing something I
Pastor Brent McQuay: shouldn't be doing? Am I saying things
Pastor Brent McQuay: I shouldn't be saying? Am I saying
Pastor Brent McQuay: things in a way that I shouldn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: be saying them? Because sometimes people will
Pastor Brent McQuay: even claim, you know, well, I'm being
Pastor Brent McQuay: persecuted for my faith. And it's like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: well, no, you just, you just walked
Pastor Brent McQuay: up to a complete stranger and started
Pastor Brent McQuay: yelling at them and quoting scripture and
Pastor Brent McQuay: doing it. And when they were like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: hey, can you just leave me alone?
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're like, I'm being persecuted for my
Pastor Brent McQuay: faith. It's like, no, you just have
Pastor Brent McQuay: no tact. And so, like, we need
Pastor Brent McQuay: to work on your approach to people.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so. Yeah. But yeah, there absolutely
Pastor Brent McQuay: is a difference between, I think you
Pastor Brent McQuay: called it self inflicted wounds.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And trials. And there's, there's a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: of things that we face because we
Pastor Brent McQuay: made the wrong choice. You married somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: that God never told you to marry.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You went to a school or got
Pastor Brent McQuay: a job that you weren't supposed to
Pastor Brent McQuay: get. You. You got a job knowing
Pastor Brent McQuay: that you were going to have to
Pastor Brent McQuay: compromise morals and your, your ethical Standards.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You decided to have sex outside of
Pastor Brent McQuay: marriage, and now you're dealing with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: consequence of a baby. Like, it's. There's,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's things where it's like, don't. Don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: label something you did to yourself as
Pastor Brent McQuay: well. God is testing my faith. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, no, that's not how that works.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's a tough.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Is that mean? I don't.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It is mean, but I don't want
Ti'heasha Beasley: to be mean. No, that's me. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's just me. It's mean.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I. I do. I've run into a
Pastor Brent McQuay: lot of Christians that are dealing with
Pastor Brent McQuay: consequences and, and try and make it
Pastor Brent McQuay: spiritual. Well, and I don't want us
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do that.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I can see that. But Peter made
Ti'heasha Beasley: a lot of. He could have walked
Ti'heasha Beasley: on that water and drowned. And that
Ti'heasha Beasley: would have been a consequence.
Pastor Brent McQuay: No, I don't think it was either.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, that would have been the result
Pastor Brent McQuay: of standing on water. Because. No. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm trying to process through it, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, but, like, no. So that example,
Pastor Brent McQuay: is that a trial? No, but it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: neither. You just. You just brought in.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I was just trying to think of
Ti'heasha Beasley: something.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You just brought in. I was just
Pastor Brent McQuay: trying to think of something.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Well, I mean, realistically. Okay, think about
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it like this, Taisha. If your son
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: does something.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: That clearly he shouldn't have done, knew
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: better to do. Now I get it.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Sometimes you do things that you don't
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: know better. Okay. Knew better, did it
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: anyway. And broke his wrist. I know
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: he just had a wrist, but I'm
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: just saying, if you would have told
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: him, don't go play basketball that day,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and he fell and broke his wrist.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Well, you broke your wrist. It's a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: consequence of being disobedient. Well, technically, it's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: a consequence of tripping and falling, but.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So I don't know. How would you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: parent him in that moment? Would you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: say, well, it's just a child, baby,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: or would it be, you should probably
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: do what you know to do instead
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of doing.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, I know the difference between. I'm
Ti'heasha Beasley: thinking of some very specific things that
Ti'heasha Beasley: people are going through right now. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: I guess I would just be like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: yes. No, this is probably a consequence.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But, like, how do we approach. Approach
Ti'heasha Beasley: it? So that.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Sure. And that. And that. And that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a. That's a different thing. So, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: how do you do. How do you
Pastor Brent McQuay: deal with consequences?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think that's a healthy question to
Pastor Brent McQuay: ask, because I think there's some people
Pastor Brent McQuay: that have the mentality of, well, this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is my consequence. So I Just got
Pastor Brent McQuay: to grip my teeth and bear it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's like, well, no, can we learn
Pastor Brent McQuay: from consequences? Can we, can we appreciate
Pastor Brent McQuay: the. What is happening is because of
Pastor Brent McQuay: this? So here's what I should do
Pastor Brent McQuay: in the future. Like, you know, the,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the guys repossessing your car, that's a
Pastor Brent McQuay: consequence of you purchasing a vehicle you
Pastor Brent McQuay: couldn't afford, of you, you know, stretching
Pastor Brent McQuay: a little bit further in your finances
Pastor Brent McQuay: than you really should have. Or it
Pastor Brent McQuay: could just be the inevitable consequence of,
Pastor Brent McQuay: hey, I had a great job that
Pastor Brent McQuay: totally could pay for this vehicle. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: then I lost my job. Like, so
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's, there's different things that can attribute
Pastor Brent McQuay: to issues that we go through. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think the, the best lesson we can
Pastor Brent McQuay: learn is what's the lesson that I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: learning? Yeah, right. So, like, okay, I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: not going to do that again. I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: not going to stretch in that way.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm not going to get a car.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Note that if I lost my job,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'd be losing the car immediately. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I need to have savings. I need
Pastor Brent McQuay: to live within my means. Like, so
Pastor Brent McQuay: we learn and we grow and we
Pastor Brent McQuay: develop. And so there can definitely be
Pastor Brent McQuay: a spiritual component to all that. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: think my issue is just when people
Pastor Brent McQuay: will ignore the fact that I did
Pastor Brent McQuay: something wrong and now I'm facing consequences
Pastor Brent McQuay: from. For it and jump straight to,
Pastor Brent McQuay: well, God's just teaching me this wonderful
Pastor Brent McQuay: lesson about blah, blah, blah. Yeah, no,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like sin still. Yes. Sin still carries
Pastor Brent McQuay: consequences, even for believers.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, I believe that it's true.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And even for stuff that, yeah, God
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: has forgiven you for, but in the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: natural, it may be something that you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: still have to deal with to walk
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: out. So it ain't even. It's not
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: a matter of that. It's not a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: matter of God's grace, mercy, forgiveness, none
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of that. But sometimes you've gone past
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: the point of no return when it
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: comes to consequences.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I'm sure you've had to deal
Pastor Brent McQuay: with that doing prison ministry.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Oh, absolutely.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, there's guys that are like, on
Pastor Brent McQuay: fire for Jesus in prison. Yeah, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: they stay in prison.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Get me out. Jesus. Well, yeah, he
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: could. They could start shaking and you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: can walk out, but whatever. But you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: actually did this. There's a consequence for
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it. We will pray for you. We
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: will pray for favor, but that don't
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: mean that he's going to just let
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you off for murder.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And just remember that all the prison
Pastor Brent McQuay: breaks in the Bible were all people
Pastor Brent McQuay: that were wrongfully imprisoned.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Right, right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: They were innocent.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah, innocent. So, yeah, no, that's Definitely
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: a thing. But that's even a thing
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: just in our everyday life of. I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: know in my group I could think
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of. And I won't say names or
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: anything like that, but I could think
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of conversations where I had to balance.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: You did that to yourself with some
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: love of how to not send him
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: down this rabbit trail of condemnation by
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: basically pointing out the fact that you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: caused this problem. Right. Okay, you caused
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it. But now let's walk through what
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you should do moving forward and how
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: God still loves you. That's not the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: issue. So it is a balance you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: can got to have when talking to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: people.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And there are steps you can take
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: moving forward to do the best you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: can to alleviate whatever the issues the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: pressures are, but sometimes that's not comfortable.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Now, you may have to change your
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: lifestyle a little bit because of something
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that you did, but the best route
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of action right now is for you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to tweak your lifestyle to make things
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: better because you made a bad decision
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: over there. So, I mean, so it's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: a lot of ways to deal with
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it. Of course, we got to try
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to walk in love and hear people
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and pick our spots when it comes
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to the toughness that you have to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: give and give them the word.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But, yeah, I think that's part of
Pastor Brent McQuay: why I like the way I preach.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm making fun of myself because I
Pastor Brent McQuay: realized I was to about to say
Pastor Brent McQuay: something that seemed. Yeah, I like the,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the breakdown that I gave of. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: see, now you made me lose it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But it's the, the choice between obedience
Pastor Brent McQuay: and gratification. Yeah, like that. That's usually
Pastor Brent McQuay: where most people's trials come in. Like
Pastor Brent McQuay: your trial is, man, my flesh really
Pastor Brent McQuay: wants this thing, but my faith says
Pastor Brent McQuay: no. And so this trial, the. There's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the testing now. Okay, is my faith
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to win or is my flesh
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to win? And the sad reality
Pastor Brent McQuay: is that sometimes the flesh wins and
Pastor Brent McQuay: sometimes the faith wins. And we want
Pastor Brent McQuay: the faith to win more and more.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's the goal. But that's the trial
Pastor Brent McQuay: when it's okay, I'm trying to honor
Pastor Brent McQuay: God in this relationship, but we're not
Pastor Brent McQuay: married yet. But man, my flesh is
Pastor Brent McQuay: saying, tonight's the night. I got to
Pastor Brent McQuay: make a choice here. I got to
Pastor Brent McQuay: make this as a trial of my
Pastor Brent McQuay: testing of my faith. Is God more
Pastor Brent McQuay: important than my flesh?
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And I think that's one of the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: biggest things as a believer that you.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: You deal with at least over here
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: is that is am I going to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: follow God in this thing right here
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: or not? And then you get the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: next chance, am I going to follow
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: God or not? And then when things
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: start to trickle the wrong way and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you can look back and see that
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: path of disobedience, you did it. God
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: was trying to save your life, but
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you didn't let him. You know, and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that's usually, to me, there's usually a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: rabbit trail of disobedience when somebody end
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: up in really bad places. Now, I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: know accidents happen, things happen. But a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: lot of times we blaming God and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: we be even blaming the devil. And
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it was you and your flesh being
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: disobedient over and over and over and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: over again. And you end up in
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: peril because you've been disobedient over and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: over and over and over again.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Which I guess technically means that you
Pastor Brent McQuay: can face consequences because you failed a
Pastor Brent McQuay: trial too much.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Well, there you go.
Ti'heasha Beasley: You failed the trial and now it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: a consequence. I mean, but it makes
Ti'heasha Beasley: sense to the passage that we're talking
Ti'heasha Beasley: about context, like, the purpose of these
Ti'heasha Beasley: trials is to strengthen your, your faith.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right? It shows the genuine. But what
Ti'heasha Beasley: I hear a lot, just even having
Ti'heasha Beasley: the opportunity to serve the Gen Z
Ti'heasha Beasley: and millennial population is this misconception of
Ti'heasha Beasley: as soon as I become a believer,
Ti'heasha Beasley: everything is going to get better. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: then you have faster rent, get on
Ti'heasha Beasley: stage and basically say, God good, life
Ti'heasha Beasley: bad.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Figure it out, suck it up. It'll
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: be okay, right? Deal with it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Deal.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Say that again. What was it exactly?
Ti'heasha Beasley: That.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: But that was.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was pretty much it.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: God good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: First Peter. Life bad. God good. Hang
Pastor Brent McQuay: on, hang on. That's. That's what Peter
Pastor Brent McQuay: is saying through the whole thing. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: he's, he's talking to people who are
Pastor Brent McQuay: facing persecution, who are suffering because of
Pastor Brent McQuay: their decisions, because of their faith. He
Pastor Brent McQuay: goes on to talk about slaves and
Pastor Brent McQuay: masters, and he talks about husbands and
Pastor Brent McQuay: wives and goes on to talk about
Pastor Brent McQuay: all these different dynamics that basically the
Pastor Brent McQuay: setup is you're a believer and they're
Pastor Brent McQuay: not. You're born again, you're part of
Pastor Brent McQuay: a new kingdom. You're exiles. They're not.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And they're. You have to live a
Pastor Brent McQuay: certain way in this. Like, yeah, it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: life bad, God good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So what. Okay, that's really good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So if I, if I could distress,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I think the issue is, and
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know how long this lasted.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know when it got started.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I would have to do, like, more
Pastor Brent McQuay: research to figure it out. But there's,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's a window in our recent history
Pastor Brent McQuay: as Christians. And by recent, I mean
Pastor Brent McQuay: the last couple decades. Where the gospel
Pastor Brent McQuay: we preached was, if you give your
Pastor Brent McQuay: life to Jesus, everything will be good,
Pastor Brent McQuay: everything will be better. And there's some
Pastor Brent McQuay: truth to that. But the way it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was communicated gave people a wrong expectation.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It gave this expectation of, well, I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: struggling right now, and I'm sick right
Pastor Brent McQuay: now, and I'm poor right now, but
Pastor Brent McQuay: if I make Jesus, Lord, I'll be
Pastor Brent McQuay: healed and I'll be healthy and I'll
Pastor Brent McQuay: have a nice job and a good
Pastor Brent McQuay: car and lots of money. And it's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, yeah, no, that's. That's not the
Pastor Brent McQuay: gospel. Yeah, the gospel isn't telling you
Pastor Brent McQuay: anything about what's gonna happen between now
Pastor Brent McQuay: and the time you die, other than
Pastor Brent McQuay: God's gonna be with you. Good, bad,
Pastor Brent McQuay: ugly. You're not walking it alone. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: not only that, you got a body
Pastor Brent McQuay: of believers. You're part of a. A
Pastor Brent McQuay: family now. You're part of the body
Pastor Brent McQuay: of Christ. So there's others. Today we.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We had a funeral. And the number
Pastor Brent McQuay: of times the. The wife came to
Pastor Brent McQuay: tell me just how much the church
Pastor Brent McQuay: means to her that, you know, yesterday
Pastor Brent McQuay: at the funeral home, she's like, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just don't want to be here. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just don't want to be here. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: when she was thinking about being at
Pastor Brent McQuay: church today, she's like, I just. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: just want to be at my church.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I just want to be at my
Pastor Brent McQuay: church. Because she knows that there's people
Pastor Brent McQuay: that are going to be encouraging her
Pastor Brent McQuay: and loving on her and taking care
Pastor Brent McQuay: of her. That's what we have. We
Pastor Brent McQuay: have family. We have community. We have
Pastor Brent McQuay: a God who. Who walks with us.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We have a comforter who's with us.
Pastor Brent McQuay: None of that promises you're not going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to lose your job. None of that
Pastor Brent McQuay: promises you're not going to end up
Pastor Brent McQuay: homeless. None of that promises you're not
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to end up with cancer. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's just not the gospel. The gospel
Pastor Brent McQuay: is, Jesus died for you. You are
Pastor Brent McQuay: now saved. You are on your way
Pastor Brent McQuay: to heaven, and until you get there,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Holy Spirit's going to be walking
Pastor Brent McQuay: this path with you. And it's beautiful.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's amazing. It's awesome. It is good
Pastor Brent McQuay: news. It just doesn't promise a Rolex
Pastor Brent McQuay: and.
Ti'heasha Beasley: A Ferrari and a, you know, we
Ti'heasha Beasley: gonna get canceled. And I'm just playing
Ti'heasha Beasley: because here's the thing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't think that anything that I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: saying now. Now is controversial or unheard.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah, it's because I. I do believe
Pastor Brent McQuay: strongly that we have. We are coming
Pastor Brent McQuay: out of. Or we have already come
Pastor Brent McQuay: out of that Window? Yeah, I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: there was a window. And that's, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: where I'd have to do, like, church
Pastor Brent McQuay: research and church history. I don't know
Pastor Brent McQuay: if that window was 30 years, 20
Pastor Brent McQuay: years, 10 years, 50 years, 100 years,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know. But there was a
Pastor Brent McQuay: period of time and we, we label
Pastor Brent McQuay: the prosperity gospel. And I think that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: true to a degree, but I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: it spread beyond just prosperity gospel because
Pastor Brent McQuay: there was people that were like, well,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I won't be prosperous, but I'll have
Pastor Brent McQuay: this, because God's gonna make sure it
Pastor Brent McQuay: happens. And it's like, yeah, no, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not, that's not what the Bible tells
Pastor Brent McQuay: us. But I think that we've come
Pastor Brent McQuay: out of that. I think there's a
Pastor Brent McQuay: lot of preachers out there that are,
Pastor Brent McQuay: Are on this new bandwagon of him.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Let's just be realistic with what the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible is actually declaring. You know, we
Pastor Brent McQuay: look at the disciples. They died as
Pastor Brent McQuay: martyrs. Like, they didn't have a lot
Pastor Brent McQuay: of wealth. I think Peter had a
Pastor Brent McQuay: house from one of the. I'm blanking
Pastor Brent McQuay: on the description now, but somebody was
Pastor Brent McQuay: using his home as a church base.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And so, I mean, he had enough
Pastor Brent McQuay: money for a house. Other than that,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the rest of them were like, they
Pastor Brent McQuay: wandered, they went from place to place.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Other people took care of them. Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you know, it's, it's. That's the, The
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible we follow. It's not promising you
Pastor Brent McQuay: lots of cool stuff except for it
Pastor Brent McQuay: promised you Jesus. And that's pretty cool.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That is. It is awesome. And it
Ti'heasha Beasley: is awesome. And it's heavy.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It is. And it's like, I get
Pastor Brent McQuay: that, like, people want to hear when
Pastor Brent McQuay: somebody gets a diagnosis of cancer, they
Pastor Brent McQuay: want to hear God's going to take
Pastor Brent McQuay: care of it. They do. And I
Pastor Brent McQuay: get that. And if, If I get
Pastor Brent McQuay: cancer, I would love to hear. You're
Pastor Brent McQuay: gonna be healed. It's gonna be okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You're. You're not gonna die. You're gonna
Pastor Brent McQuay: live. We can't make that promise. The
Pastor Brent McQuay: promise is that, yeah, you'll be healed
Pastor Brent McQuay: in heaven, maybe before then. That'd be
Pastor Brent McQuay: awesome. Miracles do happen. God does do
Pastor Brent McQuay: healings. It's 100%. I still believe in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the supernatural taking place on this earth,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but the supernatural taking place is not
Pastor Brent McQuay: always guaranteed.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. Do you wanna add anything? Do
Ti'heasha Beasley: you wanna add anything?
Pastor Brent McQuay: But heaven's gonna be awesome.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's gonna. Yep.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: This is what.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that's the inheritance. We didn't stray
Pastor Brent McQuay: that far from First Peter because that,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's the message of First Peter.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You are born again. You have a
Pastor Brent McQuay: living hope, which is the, the eternal
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christ Jesus is our living hope. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's all through his shed blood that
Pastor Brent McQuay: we have all of this. But there
Pastor Brent McQuay: is an inheritance waiting for us. It
Pastor Brent McQuay: even says that it's secure for us
Pastor Brent McQuay: until the end comes. And so when
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus returns, that's when we get this
Pastor Brent McQuay: thing that was promised and that's when
Pastor Brent McQuay: we get to celebrate. And that's what
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're looking forward to as believers. We're
Pastor Brent McQuay: looking forward to that day and our
Pastor Brent McQuay: lives from now until then is about
Pastor Brent McQuay: bringing as many people on that journey
Pastor Brent McQuay: as possible.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: What I was going to add after
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I said, no, I'm not adding anything
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and. But what I think is in
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: the Word is that God lays out
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: a lot of ways for you to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: behave, things to do concerning your finances,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: things to do to, to be healthier.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: He lays out a lot of walk,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: obedience to have a better life. That
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: don't mean stuff ain't going to happen.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: But there's a lot of principles that
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: we can follow that more than likely
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: gonna make our life a little bit
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: better than what it is by simply
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: just being obedient and following those principles.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yes.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: It's gonna eliminate a lot of you
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: shooting yourself in the foot. Like the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Chicago Bears yesterday. I don't know how
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I got eliminate, but it'll eliminate. Self
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: inflicted.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Canceled.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Again, being obedient. Yeah. A lot of
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: our issues sometimes are self inflicted. I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: mean it's, it's being reckless with finances,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: being reckless with how we eat and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: not exercise. So there's a lot of
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: things that we can do if we
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: just follow basic biblical principles.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's true. We can't have a bad
Ti'heasha Beasley: life.
Pastor Brent McQuay: 100%. Yeah. And that's. Yeah. Thank you
Pastor Brent McQuay: for pointing at that out. Because it
Pastor Brent McQuay: isn't to say that like a believer
Pastor Brent McQuay: and a non believer are gonna experience
Pastor Brent McQuay: the same suck. Like.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like. Yeah. There's some things that are
Pastor Brent McQuay: possible. Like a believer and a non
Pastor Brent McQuay: believer can both get hit by a
Pastor Brent McQuay: car. Random. However, there's a lot of
Pastor Brent McQuay: things that if you're doing what the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible's telling you to do, it is
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to set your life up better.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, I mean, the countless studies that
Pastor Brent McQuay: have been done about the strengths of
Pastor Brent McQuay: having a mother and father in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: home. Okay. Well, if you follow Christian
Pastor Brent McQuay: values, you should be experiencing that. Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, so there's so many things about,
Pastor Brent McQuay: in sociology and psychology that if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: have Christian values and you walk in
Pastor Brent McQuay: these Christian operations and dealing stuff. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Life is going to be.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Better than if you don't.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That makes sense.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Just.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, because at first I was like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: okay, yeah, yeah. So why do we
Ti'heasha Beasley: want to be a Christian Again?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Why would I want to be a
Pastor Brent McQuay: Christian? And they answer to the why
Pastor Brent McQuay: is there's an inheritance for Christians? There's
Pastor Brent McQuay: no inheritance for non Christians. And if
Pastor Brent McQuay: you think that 60 years or 80
Pastor Brent McQuay: years is important, like, do the math
Pastor Brent McQuay: on infinity, that's good. Do the math
Pastor Brent McQuay: on eternity. If you think these 80
Pastor Brent McQuay: years, they would be better to live
Pastor Brent McQuay: 80 years. Not with Jesus.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No. Yeah, I can testify. No, thank
Ti'heasha Beasley: you. Yeah, it's peaceful over here. It's
Ti'heasha Beasley: my saying. So why was it so
Ti'heasha Beasley: important for you, Pastor Brent, to kind
Ti'heasha Beasley: of start with the whole thing? Context
Ti'heasha Beasley: is king. Why was that so important
Ti'heasha Beasley: for you to lay out before we
Ti'heasha Beasley: jump into First Peter?
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because it's Bible study. Like, I mean,
Pastor Brent McQuay: that's, that's what we're doing. We're studying
Pastor Brent McQuay: scripture. I think that I'll be careful.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think that the YouVersion Bible app
Pastor Brent McQuay: is one of the greatest inventions of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the modern age. The Bible in your
Pastor Brent McQuay: hands. Having DeVos available right there, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it is amazing. There's a reason why
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's got billions of downloads and stuff.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's an amazing thing. However, I do
Pastor Brent McQuay: worry about what the verse of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: day does to people in their ability
Pastor Brent McQuay: to actually read and understand scripture. When
Pastor Brent McQuay: we, when we start looking for like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the bible, like a McDonald's drive through,
Pastor Brent McQuay: where it's like, just give me the
Pastor Brent McQuay: number seven real quick as I'm running
Pastor Brent McQuay: out, like, when we come to the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible with that mentality, like, you literally,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I said it yesterday, like, you can
Pastor Brent McQuay: make the Bible say whatever you want
Pastor Brent McQuay: as long as you don't worry about
Pastor Brent McQuay: the context.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I see and I hear people, Christians
Pastor Brent McQuay: and non Christians, do that all the
Pastor Brent McQuay: time. They'll just cherry pick a passage
Pastor Brent McQuay: that isn't even talking about the thing
Pastor Brent McQuay: they're going to say it's talking about.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But if you take it out of
Pastor Brent McQuay: context, it's like, oh, yeah. Oh, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: can see where, where you get that
Pastor Brent McQuay: idea from. And so just teaching people
Pastor Brent McQuay: to actually study scripture is. I, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: guess that's my, my passion in life
Pastor Brent McQuay: right now. I don't know if that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: going to last the rest of my
Pastor Brent McQuay: life or it probably will or what,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but yeah, but it is. I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: see it changing anytime soon either. However,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I do, I do feel like I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: on a mission right now of helping
Pastor Brent McQuay: people learn how to study the Bible
Pastor Brent McQuay: because there's so much goodness in it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I mean, there's some beautiful things. I
Pastor Brent McQuay: mean, just what we did yesterday, just
Pastor Brent McQuay: looking at the word sprinkle compared to
Pastor Brent McQuay: or the elect exiles of dispersion.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because, yes, these are sentences, these are
Pastor Brent McQuay: phrases, these are words that if you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: reading the verse of the day, first
Pastor Brent McQuay: of all, exiles, elect exiles of dispersion
Pastor Brent McQuay: is never showing up in the verse
Pastor Brent McQuay: of the day. Like, nobody's ever picking
Pastor Brent McQuay: that as the verse of the day.
Pastor Brent McQuay: However, it carries weight, it carries significance,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but only if you understand history and
Pastor Brent McQuay: what's happening. And the only way you
Pastor Brent McQuay: get there is by being like Thomas,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you got ask questions. And so, yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: my goal really with the, with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: walk through the Bible stuff that we
Pastor Brent McQuay: do, it's. It's one, it's to be
Pastor Brent McQuay: able to teach through a section of
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Bible. So it's not just, here's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a verse that says this, and trust
Pastor Brent McQuay: me on the context, but we're going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to jump over to this verse now.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And I do that in my preaching
Pastor Brent McQuay: too. And I. Part of me hates
Pastor Brent McQuay: it, but part of me, like, recognizes,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, I. It helps people to know,
Pastor Brent McQuay: hey, this is just Brent's ideas is
Pastor Brent McQuay: grounded in Scripture. But there's so many
Pastor Brent McQuay: times when, like, I'm reading verse three
Pastor Brent McQuay: and it like, even starts with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: word but. And you're like, why does
Pastor Brent McQuay: he say but what happened before? Yeah,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but I don't have time if I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: just using this verse to make this
Pastor Brent McQuay: point. And so even for me, like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I prefer being able to just. Here's
Pastor Brent McQuay: the passage, here's what we're looking at.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Here's what we're going to learn from
Pastor Brent McQuay: it. Here's what the, the people were
Pastor Brent McQuay: trying to communicate. Communicate when they wrote
Pastor Brent McQuay: it. So, yeah, for me, I just,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I want to teach context. So, so
Pastor Brent McQuay: I do it for that reason. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: we're also doing this walk through the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible because I want to help people
Pastor Brent McQuay: when they study their Bible on their
Pastor Brent McQuay: own.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That it for me, preaching on Sunday,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it isn't about Sunday. It's like, okay,
Pastor Brent McQuay: what am I giving them? The audience
Pastor Brent McQuay: so that they have something for Monday
Pastor Brent McQuay: and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: honestly, like, I feel like if, if
Pastor Brent McQuay: I could teach people just to study
Pastor Brent McQuay: their Bible, it makes my life easier.
Pastor Brent McQuay: You know how many, like, counseling appointments
Pastor Brent McQuay: and meetings I have with people that
Pastor Brent McQuay: basically could have been solved if they
Pastor Brent McQuay: had done what the Bible told them
Pastor Brent McQuay: to do to begin with is that
Pastor Brent McQuay: just keep shaking, stop saying those things
Pastor Brent McQuay: out loud. Stop it.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And I think your issue, it comes
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: off like, it's the verse of the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: day is the issue when at the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: end of the day, you're wanting people
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to get a hunger for God's Word
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and actually taking this path, this journey
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: in life to get in God's Word
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and to grow in it, which that's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: what makes it so awesome, is that
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: if you actually get in it and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: continue to stay in it and go
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: through it systematically by actually studying it,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: go through it quickly because you got
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: a little time. But if overall you're
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: starting to spend more and more and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: more time in God's Word, actually pulling
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: out what, what it's really trying to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: say, praying through it, talking through it,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: writing it down between now and 10
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: years, you should have grown in a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: way where you don't need Pastor Brent's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: counsel on how to love your wife,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: because the Bible.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Has already told you how to love
Pastor Brent McQuay: right now.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Maybe it's something else that you haven't
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: come across that you need. You need
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: somebody to tell you. So it's just
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: wanting people to get on a journey
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of take the word of God seriously
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that to our answers to all of
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it, period. That's the answers to this
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: thing. So if we would just take
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that seriously, you can get some inspiration
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: from the verse of the day. Long
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: as you're studying your Bible too, or
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: long as that's giving you this hunger
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to say, let me go see what
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that's talking about.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That's why I pulled out my phone
Pastor Brent McQuay: idea.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: It's not for it to just be
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: what you live by. Like that said,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: whatever it said, you know, my wife
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: need to listen to me. The verse
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of the day saying, my wife need
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to submit. It ain't for you.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Or it's like, I'm totally gonna throw
Pastor Brent McQuay: my sister under the bus. She has
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jeremiah 29:11 tattooed to her, to her
Pastor Brent McQuay: ankle. And I'm like, you know that
Pastor Brent McQuay: verse that, you know, that verse was
Pastor Brent McQuay: talking to God's people right before they
Pastor Brent McQuay: went into exile. Like it was to
Pastor Brent McQuay: remind them that even in the exile
Pastor Brent McQuay: that God still has plans and purposes
Pastor Brent McQuay: for their lives. I'm glad that you
Pastor Brent McQuay: love that verse, but you know that
Pastor Brent McQuay: it has nothing to do with you
Pastor Brent McQuay: or like the I can do all
Pastor Brent McQuay: things through Christ who strengthens me. Amazing
Pastor Brent McQuay: verse. Do you real big?
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: It's not real big. It's a Bible.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: It's open to Philippians.
Ti'heasha Beasley: What?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I realize I've never seen your back.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Thank God. He's never seen my back.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: It's been there since I was like
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: 16 years old, 17 years old.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But the number of 16 and 17
Pastor Brent McQuay: year old kids that Are using that
Pastor Brent McQuay: to be like, we're going to win
Pastor Brent McQuay: this football game.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Exactly.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it's like the whole. The whole
Pastor Brent McQuay: passage is talking about persecution and suffering,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and I know how to have a
Pastor Brent McQuay: lot of stuff, and I know how
Pastor Brent McQuay: to have nothing. I can be content
Pastor Brent McQuay: in. In it because I can do
Pastor Brent McQuay: all the things. Like, it's a part
Pastor Brent McQuay: of like a whole. Yeah. Anyways. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: I pull out my phone just to
Pastor Brent McQuay: prove I do love the. The YouVersion
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible app. So much so that I
Pastor Brent McQuay: have a shortcut. Oh, I need my
Pastor Brent McQuay: face. There it is. See, I got
Pastor Brent McQuay: a little button that takes me straight
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the Bible app every time. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: here's what I wanted to. To show
Pastor Brent McQuay: people or tell people.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Do you want a cookie? No, just
Ti'heasha Beasley: playing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yes, I do. Okay. When you go
Pastor Brent McQuay: to the verse of the day. Oh,
Pastor Brent McQuay: man. Now I'm. I'm here and I
Pastor Brent McQuay: can't find.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It isn't the verse of the day.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I just read it this morning, actually.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Verse of the day.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I just read it this morning.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Okay, so when you go to the
Pastor Brent McQuay: verse of the day there, it'll bring
Pastor Brent McQuay: it up. So the verse of the
Pastor Brent McQuay: day today is John 14, verse 1.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe
Pastor Brent McQuay: in God. But yeah, believe all and
Pastor Brent McQuay: me. Right under that is a really
Pastor Brent McQuay: big button read. That says read full
Pastor Brent McQuay: chapter. Just do me a favor and
Pastor Brent McQuay: click that button and then keep reading.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, the verse of the day is
Pastor Brent McQuay: great. It gets you started. Read full
Pastor Brent McQuay: chapter.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And this one's great because it's John
Pastor Brent McQuay: 14, verse 1. But sometimes it's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: verse 12. It's like this is the
Pastor Brent McQuay: middle of a whole conversation. Yeah, read
Pastor Brent McQuay: the whole conversation.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. I did get convicted this morning
Ti'heasha Beasley: when I read the verse of the
Ti'heasha Beasley: day.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: You heard Brent's voice. It wasn't the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: voice of the Holy Spirit. It was
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Brent's voice.
Ti'heasha Beasley: I did get convicted.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Friends voice saying, read more.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was like, okay, let me. Because
Ti'heasha Beasley: it was really a lazy, like, alarm
Ti'heasha Beasley: went off. I try not to scroll
Ti'heasha Beasley: or anything. So I go to.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So you just checked. That was your
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: check mark for the day.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. So I went to it. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: then here's the kicker. I go to
Ti'heasha Beasley: that where you can hear like the
Ti'heasha Beasley: person doing the short, short devotional with
Ti'heasha Beasley: it to get my application from it.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's horrible. So that. That is lazy.
Ti'heasha Beasley: But.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: But okay, let's just say you were
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: really busy and that's what you did.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, I was tired.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: No, but let's just say you're brushing
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: your teeth and you just needed a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: quick fix. Yeah, it's okay. Long as
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you go study your Bible.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. And. And, and I'll go so
Pastor Brent McQuay: far as to say, would I rather
Pastor Brent McQuay: you read the verse of the day
Pastor Brent McQuay: than read nothing today?
Ti'heasha Beasley: 100 social media. Absolutely. Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like if, if all you can do
Pastor Brent McQuay: and if this is your baby Christian
Pastor Brent McQuay: or you've just got a chaotic day
Pastor Brent McQuay: and it's like, Brent, all I can
Pastor Brent McQuay: get through is two verses. Like, I
Pastor Brent McQuay: can't do a whole chapter. I can't
Pastor Brent McQuay: do. I can't do it.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Okay. It's a muscle. We're gonna, we're
Pastor Brent McQuay: gonna start working out right now. We're
Pastor Brent McQuay: just lifting the bar.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're gonna get to the point where
Pastor Brent McQuay: you do the bar and a couple
Pastor Brent McQuay: of 45s, but right now you just
Pastor Brent McQuay: got the bar. Awesome. Yeah, keep doing
Pastor Brent McQuay: it.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And it's a process. So in my
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: group tonight, we are. So we're doing
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: First Peter. So we're doing it like.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: We did the all church campaign with
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Ephesians. We decided to take it for
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: our group. And what I've told my
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: group to do is read all of
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it once a week. And then we're
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: gonna. And take notes, write things down,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: go scripture by scripture and study it.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And each week we're gonna come back,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: we're gonna talk about First Peter, we're
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: gonna talk about the sermon, but we
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: also gonna talk about anything you've been
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: learning through First Peter. I don't care
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: what chapter is in. Right. But how
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: did we get there? I started off,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: we did Ephesians back in February, but
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: then there was, at some point, we
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: did a whole 10, 13 week devotional
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: together.
Pastor Brent McQuay: He's laughing at me because it's a,
Pastor Brent McQuay: it's a 10 week devo that I
Pastor Brent McQuay: was asking lesson plan. And I asked
Pastor Brent McQuay: him to explain to me. And he's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, okay, so in week 11, I'm
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, whoa, you said 10 weeks? He's
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, yeah, well, actually there's 13 and
Pastor Brent McQuay: half a. And I'm like, but there's
Pastor Brent McQuay: 10. He's like, well, there's 10 lessons,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but it starts with a zero lesson.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So that's like the 11th week.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: It sounds like your first Peter example.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: We're gonna do first Peter once a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: week, one chapter a week for six
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: weeks. Same thing. Same exact thing.
Pastor Brent McQuay: The thing that I love is like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: so when I made the comment about,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, for the astute people in the
Pastor Brent McQuay: room that know, I actually had somebody
Pastor Brent McQuay: come up to me later that was
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, yeah. My husband was like, how
Pastor Brent McQuay: is he gonna do six, six weeks?
Pastor Brent McQuay: There's only five Chapters. And then you
Pastor Brent McQuay: said, I'm like, see, there's other people
Pastor Brent McQuay: like me. I'm not the only weirdo.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yes.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So how did we get there? Right?
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So after we did that one study,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: we went through Acts, and it was
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: like, all right, we're going through the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: book of Acts. It's a chapter a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: day. And we went a chapter a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: day. But we've been going along this.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Just read it process. But now I'm
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: like, all right, read the whole chapter
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: each week and study it. And actually
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: go line by line and write down
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: what you're learning. And we got. You
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: technically have the whole six weeks to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: get through all of that, but read
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it at least once a week and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: get through it. So it's just a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: process of taking them from. Some of
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: them never reading. Some of them are
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: readers to. They've been reading a little
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: bit. We've been reading together here. Now
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: we're reading a little more now. Let's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: actually study it. So it's a process,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and that's okay. It's just. Get on.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Start the process somewhere. If it's the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: verse of the day, if that's the
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: first time you seeing God's word, and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it's the verse of the day, that's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: awesome. Then go further, and then go
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: a little further. And then wherever he
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: is right now, Pastor Brent, he needs
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to go further. He need to be
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: further five years from now than where
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: he is today. I need to be
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: further. I need to be further. December.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, you're right.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: That's the point.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I want to be more like Jesus
Pastor Brent McQuay: today than I was yesterday. That's true.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, that's the point.
Pastor Brent McQuay: That sparked something I was gonna say,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and I lost it. I don't know
Pastor Brent McQuay: what it was, but I was like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: oh, there's something I wanted to say.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It was. I saw it, too.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So good. It was like, right there.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: He's trying to jump in. I kept
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: going.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's all right. If it's really important,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the Holy Spirit will remind you.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, no, but I think it is
Ti'heasha Beasley: an encouragement because as you mature in
Ti'heasha Beasley: Christ. Which is what. And if you
Ti'heasha Beasley: get it, just cut me off. But
Ti'heasha Beasley: as I did get it.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Okay, go, go, go. I was just
Ti'heasha Beasley: gonna say, as you mature, those devotional
Ti'heasha Beasley: times will become. You'll just grow in
Ti'heasha Beasley: it. That's all.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was just going to highlight the
Pastor Brent McQuay: fact that we are living in an
Pastor Brent McQuay: amazing moment in human history. Because you
Pastor Brent McQuay: can study your Bible like never before.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because, like, I get a lot of
Pastor Brent McQuay: people like. But. But, Brad, I don't
Pastor Brent McQuay: even know, like, I needed to look
Pastor Brent McQuay: into the word sprinkle. The way you
Pastor Brent McQuay: brought broke it down. It's like, okay,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but here's the beauty of life right
Pastor Brent McQuay: now. There's this amazing thing called the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Internet. And sometimes it's dangerous.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It is.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But it can also be an amazing
Pastor Brent McQuay: tool. And so Bible study at this
Pastor Brent McQuay: stage for a lot of people should
Pastor Brent McQuay: be highlight anything that stands out. Circle
Pastor Brent McQuay: any word that's like, that's a weird
Pastor Brent McQuay: word. Or I don't even know what
Pastor Brent McQuay: word, what that that word means or
Pastor Brent McQuay: why did they choose that word? Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: just ask questions. Okay? That's. That's Bible
Pastor Brent McQuay: study. Ask questions. Who wrote it? Who
Pastor Brent McQuay: are they writing to? What are they
Pastor Brent McQuay: saying? And why are they writing? Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: those are the four most important questions
Pastor Brent McQuay: and the what are they saying? That's
Pastor Brent McQuay: when you start highlighting words like, therefore.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We're gonna start Sunday with the word
Pastor Brent McQuay: therefore. Because verse 13 of chapter 1
Pastor Brent McQuay: says therefore. When you find the word
Pastor Brent McQuay: therefore, you gotta ask, why? What is
Pastor Brent McQuay: that?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Therefore.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Therefore. And so we ask those questions,
Pastor Brent McQuay: but we circle things, we highlight things,
Pastor Brent McQuay: and then you Google it, because why
Pastor Brent McQuay: not, right? Like, is every. Is every
Pastor Brent McQuay: link you get sent gonna be a
Pastor Brent McQuay: good one? Like, no, but you'll learn.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And you'll like, okay, like, if you
Pastor Brent McQuay: keep going to the Jehovah Witnesses website
Pastor Brent McQuay: because their stuff pops up a lot,
Pastor Brent McQuay: realize that that is a cult. That's
Pastor Brent McQuay: not. That's not a good interpretation of
Pastor Brent McQuay: scripture when they manipulate Scripture. And so.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But you'll start to. To learn as
Pastor Brent McQuay: you go. And you're like, okay, this
Pastor Brent McQuay: is more reputable. You can use free
Pastor Brent McQuay: resources like the Blue Letter Bible. You
Pastor Brent McQuay: can do Bible Gateway, and there's Commentary,
Pastor Brent McQuay: commentaries. Yeah, they're like the resources for
Pastor Brent McQuay: people, the average person to be able
Pastor Brent McQuay: to study the Bible today is greater
Pastor Brent McQuay: than it has ever been in human
Pastor Brent McQuay: history. I. I would even go so
Pastor Brent McQuay: far as to say right now, because
Pastor Brent McQuay: of chat, gbt and other AI stuff,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you probably have better access to information
Pastor Brent McQuay: today than you did this time last
Pastor Brent McQuay: year.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, I agree.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, just the way. The way things
Pastor Brent McQuay: are happening.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah. It's to the point I have
Ti'heasha Beasley: to use it last because I don't
Ti'heasha Beasley: want it to t. Like, yeah, what?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, I'm getting from it. So it's
Ti'heasha Beasley: like, okay, let me go through. Ask
Ti'heasha Beasley: the questions. Do observation. You want to
Ti'heasha Beasley: think first, right?
Pastor Brent McQuay: You want to talk to the Holy
Pastor Brent McQuay: Spirit first. First. And then you go,
Pastor Brent McQuay: yeah, and then actually, I would probably
Pastor Brent McQuay: talk to some other people.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, but.
Pastor Brent McQuay: But the, the point of it is,
Pastor Brent McQuay: like, there's information Available. So you can
Pastor Brent McQuay: say, okay, what, what, what Stand, man.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I was watching some guy that talked
Pastor Brent McQuay: about how, like, his Bible study method,
Pastor Brent McQuay: now he'll go to chat GB and
Pastor Brent McQuay: he'll put in, like, a passage and
Pastor Brent McQuay: he'll say, tell me five things about
Pastor Brent McQuay: this passage the average Christian. Christian doesn't
Pastor Brent McQuay: know. And it's like, I'm like, that's
Pastor Brent McQuay: actually kind of a neat, neat way.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right. Now, the average Christian might not
Pastor Brent McQuay: know it because it's not true.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Right.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So you got to be careful. Like,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you got to fact check the AI
Pastor Brent McQuay: because everything that they're quoting is true.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah. And I think you. You brought
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: up the Holy Spirit. But I was
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: sitting here thinking and go into it
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: understanding that the Holy Spirit is counselor,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that he's teacher, and that that's actually
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: his job. So if your heart is
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: open to the Holy Spirit teaching you,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you can. You can bite on something
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that maybe is not necessarily right. But
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: if you're open to the Holy Spirit
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: teaching you, he will steer you back
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: on course.
Ti'heasha Beasley: He will.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I don't know how long it's going
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to take because you might go down
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: a rabbit trail for a long time,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: but his job is to teach.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And some of that gets you back
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: on course is you, You. You come
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to church and you feeling this impression
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to say, I should ask Pastor Brent
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: this question today. And then you say,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: nah, I ain't gonna do it. I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: don't want to bug him. A lot
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: of times the whole Spirit is trying
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to get you in, bugging me, or.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: You know what I mean? It's not
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: always that, but it's like he'll point
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: things out to you that you had
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: wrong. And you may not even be
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: looking for it. But when you're open
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to, like, I try to read scripture
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and say, lord, all right, what do
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you want me to see in this
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: today?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And that's kind of how I try
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: to go about it. And. But understand
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that even if I don't get something
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that is obvious to me today, that
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: things just come randomly at random times.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Like, oh, I was studying that a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: while ago, and there's that answer I
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: was looking for. So be open to.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Before they had all the digital stuff,
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: there was the Holy Spirit. After all
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: the digital stuff, there's the.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Holy Spirit for sure.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: So use all the tools and use
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: the Holy Spirit first, last, amen, 100%.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And that's still how I'll teach people
Pastor Brent McQuay: to study the Bible. Like, pray before
Pastor Brent McQuay: you read. So the Holy Spirit is
Pastor Brent McQuay: speaking to you while you're Reading. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: then after you're done reading, like, pray
Pastor Brent McQuay: again and be like, okay, whatever it
Pastor Brent McQuay: is you're trying to teach me, whatever
Pastor Brent McQuay: I'm needing help with, I see in
Pastor Brent McQuay: this passage that I'm not supposed to
Pastor Brent McQuay: be doing this thing that I'm totally
Pastor Brent McQuay: guilty of still doing. Holy Spirit, help
Pastor Brent McQuay: me not do that. Now that your
Pastor Brent McQuay: word is revealed it into my life.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Like, okay, let me help me with
Pastor Brent McQuay: this. Like, so, yeah, we absolutely should
Pastor Brent McQuay: be surrounding our Bible reading with prayer.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It should be part of the process
Pastor Brent McQuay: of studying.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah, man, I think this was really
Ti'heasha Beasley: good episode on, like, for those like.
Pastor Brent McQuay: To read the Bible. Did we ever
Pastor Brent McQuay: even talk about First Peter?
Ti'heasha Beasley: We did. We talked about the trials
Ti'heasha Beasley: and the tribulations, and you briefly talked
Ti'heasha Beasley: about the exiles. But if you want
Ti'heasha Beasley: to nerd out right here.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I don't know that I need to
Pastor Brent McQuay: nerd out. I just. I think I
Pastor Brent McQuay: felt you landing the plane, and I
Pastor Brent McQuay: was like, no, it's.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Getting landed, but landing gear is extended.
Ti'heasha Beasley: It's beginning. But I was just reflecting
Ti'heasha Beasley: on this. I think this podcast is
Ti'heasha Beasley: going to be very good for, like,
Ti'heasha Beasley: newer believers, because that was such a
Ti'heasha Beasley: heavy passage, First Peter, like, to. To
Ti'heasha Beasley: go into. And it could be intimidating
Ti'heasha Beasley: as a newer believer to. To start
Ti'heasha Beasley: to identify, you know, what does that
Ti'heasha Beasley: hope in Christ really looks like? How
Ti'heasha Beasley: do I study the word of God?
Ti'heasha Beasley: Like, how do I count it all
Ti'heasha Beasley: joy with these trials and tribulations. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: so it was. It was. It was
Ti'heasha Beasley: beautiful for new disciples to unpack why
Ti'heasha Beasley: it's important to study his Word and
Ti'heasha Beasley: understand it and tools that you can
Ti'heasha Beasley: use to help you. And so I
Ti'heasha Beasley: think it was good.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah. And that's. That's the beauty of.
Pastor Brent McQuay: So, like, First Peter, all we did
Pastor Brent McQuay: basically, was his introduction.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: His setup. Like, it gives the basis
Pastor Brent McQuay: for. Actually, verse 13, starts with the
Pastor Brent McQuay: word therefore. And it's literally. It's verses
Pastor Brent McQuay: one through 12 set up the rest
Pastor Brent McQuay: of chapter one. But really, it's the
Pastor Brent McQuay: setup for the whole book.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And it's basically the premise is that
Pastor Brent McQuay: you're gonna face trials. They're not pointless.
Pastor Brent McQuay: They're actually obtaining for your salvation because
Pastor Brent McQuay: your salvation is by faith alone.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And the trials are testing your faith.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's proving that. Hey, you didn't just
Pastor Brent McQuay: say, well, yeah, sure, I believe in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus. No, you really fully put your
Pastor Brent McQuay: faith and your trust, your belief in
Pastor Brent McQuay: him. And it's a beautiful moment. And
Pastor Brent McQuay: so when you're facing those trials, understand
Pastor Brent McQuay: that there's a purpose to it. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: actually for your benefit. Like, it's. It's
Pastor Brent McQuay: proving the genuineness of your faith. But
Pastor Brent McQuay: also in that we hold on to
Pastor Brent McQuay: over and over again, we hold on
Pastor Brent McQuay: to we are born again. Like you're
Pastor Brent McQuay: not who you used to be. When,
Pastor Brent McQuay: when you confess Jesus as lord of
Pastor Brent McQuay: your life, you are born again. You
Pastor Brent McQuay: are a new creation. The old has
Pastor Brent McQuay: passed away, the new has come. You're
Pastor Brent McQuay: walking in newness of Christ. Like there's,
Pastor Brent McQuay: there's this beauty of being born again
Pastor Brent McQuay: and you've been born again into a
Pastor Brent McQuay: living hope. Like the world doesn't get
Pastor Brent McQuay: the hope that we have. Like the
Pastor Brent McQuay: Bible makes that very clear. Today at
Pastor Brent McQuay: the funeral there's grief, yes. But man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: person after person after person got up
Pastor Brent McQuay: there and talked about how they're going
Pastor Brent McQuay: to see him again in heaven.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Oh, that's awesome.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because Christian family, like, and it's the,
Pastor Brent McQuay: the faith and the hope that they
Pastor Brent McQuay: have is different. I've been at funerals
Pastor Brent McQuay: where nobody stops crying because it's the
Pastor Brent McQuay: end.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And this wasn't, this was, I think
Pastor Brent McQuay: his, his daughter in law even said,
Pastor Brent McQuay: you know, this isn't goodbye, this is
Pastor Brent McQuay: see you later.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Awesome.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Right? Because there's a, we have a
Pastor Brent McQuay: living hope because our hope is in
Pastor Brent McQuay: Jesus and he, he's eternal. So it
Pastor Brent McQuay: never goes away. And there's an inheritance
Pastor Brent McQuay: waiting for us. And that's what we
Pastor Brent McQuay: hold on to in the difficult moments
Pastor Brent McQuay: is that there is an inheritance. There's
Pastor Brent McQuay: a glorification that's coming. There's a heaven
Pastor Brent McQuay: that is waiting for me. Where, man,
Pastor Brent McQuay: I read a puritan prayer today about,
Pastor Brent McQuay: about heaven that basically just tells, tells
Pastor Brent McQuay: us to like show me or teach
Pastor Brent McQuay: me that heaven is all this wonder
Pastor Brent McQuay: and beauty and glory and, and lead
Pastor Brent McQuay: me to it now. Like it just
Pastor Brent McQuay: make that the focal point of my
Pastor Brent McQuay: life is that there's this inheritance waiting
Pastor Brent McQuay: for me. That's beautiful. And so we
Pastor Brent McQuay: hold on to that as we go
Pastor Brent McQuay: through trials and tribulations and suffering and
Pastor Brent McQuay: life when it's not so good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Yeah.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Because life bad, God good. Hang on,
Pastor Brent McQuay: hang on.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: And it says in there to rejoice.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Because of this hope.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And in this we rejoice.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: In this we rejoice. And I think
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it's, it's other than he said do
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it so be obedient. I think that
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: it shifts you from your issues, your
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: problem, the thing you're facing. It's a
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: perspective shift when you actually begin to
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: receive, rejoice and give God thanks and
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: praise and he can focus you back
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: on the good that's in your life
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: and get you off that rabbit Trail
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that sometimes you can go down when
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: you just focused on the issues. And
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I think rejoice, praise, worship. I think
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that does that. When you rejoice through
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: stuff, I believe it really changes your
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: perspective. So I like to practice doing
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: that. So do it. Rejoice, because there's
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: hope.
Pastor Brent McQuay: It's awesome.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That's good. Did you have a moment
Ti'heasha Beasley: over there?
Pastor Brent McQuay: I did. Like, the Bible's awesome.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Man, that was good to see.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Pastor Brent, I don't know if this
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: is real love.
Ti'heasha Beasley: This is real. We. We come at
Ti'heasha Beasley: each other.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: I'm not really.
Ti'heasha Beasley: We come at each other all the
Ti'heasha Beasley: time as brothers and sisters.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: You're getting cushy.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah, this makes me uncomfortable.
Ti'heasha Beasley: No, because we love each other through
Ti'heasha Beasley: the. The sly comments. No. So I
Ti'heasha Beasley: think that was a good way. We
Ti'heasha Beasley: don't have to necessarily do our land
Ti'heasha Beasley: and plane moments. I think that was
Ti'heasha Beasley: beautiful how both of you guys kind
Ti'heasha Beasley: of wrapped up. First Peter, unless you
Ti'heasha Beasley: have your takeaways.
Pastor Brent McQuay: I think, what's your takeaway? Because we've.
Pastor Brent McQuay: We've done all the talks.
Ti'heasha Beasley: That was my plan. No, I am
Ti'heasha Beasley: just encouraged. And I hope that's the
Ti'heasha Beasley: takeaway that a lot of people feel.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And so some of the questions I
Ti'heasha Beasley: was asking today, I was kind of
Ti'heasha Beasley: asking from a place of like, newer
Ti'heasha Beasley: believers or newer doses. Disciples.
Pastor Brent McQuay: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: Because being a believer, it can be
Ti'heasha Beasley: heavy, but it is worth it. And
Ti'heasha Beasley: we have the tools and the examples
Ti'heasha Beasley: in God's scripture to help us walk
Ti'heasha Beasley: out.
Pastor Brent McQuay: And, and when you really get this
Pastor Brent McQuay: message, everything that Peter is describing for
Pastor Brent McQuay: when you really get that, it's like
Pastor Brent McQuay: the, the guy that I got the
Pastor Brent McQuay: email from about the persecution that they're
Pastor Brent McQuay: facing. There was never a moment in
Pastor Brent McQuay: the, in the email where it was
Pastor Brent McQuay: discouragement or why is this happening? It
Pastor Brent McQuay: was pray for our strength that we
Pastor Brent McQuay: can continue in the work. Like, it
Pastor Brent McQuay: was like, they're holding on to the
Pastor Brent McQuay: inheritance. They're holding on to the faith
Pastor Brent McQuay: that they have. They know that they've
Pastor Brent McQuay: been born again, that they have a
Pastor Brent McQuay: living hope. So the idea of, because
Pastor Brent McQuay: of this attack and this persecution, the
Pastor Brent McQuay: physical violence they suffered, the imprisonment that
Pastor Brent McQuay: they suffered, that for some people, they
Pastor Brent McQuay: would say, well, let's just back away
Pastor Brent McQuay: from this. For them, that's not even
Pastor Brent McQuay: crossing their minds. Like, if, if anything,
Pastor Brent McQuay: this just fuels them to go further
Pastor Brent McQuay: because they're holding on to the message
Pastor Brent McQuay: of First Peter.
Pastor Asa Slaughter IV: Yeah.
Ti'heasha Beasley: So good. So hold on, hold on.
Ti'heasha Beasley: On that note, that was so good.
Ti'heasha Beasley: This was a good episode. Let us
Ti'heasha Beasley: know your thoughts in the comments below.
Ti'heasha Beasley: And until then, we will be continuing
Ti'heasha Beasley: this conversation in First Peter for the
Ti'heasha Beasley: next couple of weeks. So go ahead
Ti'heasha Beasley: and read that chapter, listen to that
Ti'heasha Beasley: message, that first sermon, that intro sermon,
Ti'heasha Beasley: and we will see you next meet,
Ti'heasha Beasley: next meet, next meeting. We'll see you
Ti'heasha Beasley: next week. We love you here on
Ti'heasha Beasley: Between Sermons.